Question 5: Zero-Shot Prompting (Perfect Number Check)
Write a zero-shot prompt (without providing any examples) to generate a Python function that checks whether a given number is a perfect number.
Task:
Record the AI-generated code.
Test the program with multiple inputs.
Identify any missing conditions or inefficiencies in the logic.

1. ZERO-SHOT PROMPT

Write a Python function named is_perfect_number(number) that checks whether
the given number is a perfect number. A perfect number is a positive integer
that is equal to the sum of its proper positive divisors, excluding the number
itself. Return True if it is perfect and False otherwise. Return only the
Python function code and do not use external libraries.

No examples are provided because this is a zero-shot prompt.

2. RECORDED AI-GENERATED CODE

def is_perfect_number(number):
		divisor_sum = 0
		for divisor in range(1, number):
				if number % divisor == 0:
						divisor_sum += divisor
		return divisor_sum == number

3. TESTING WITH MULTIPLE INPUTS

Test code:

test_values = [1, 2, 6, 10, 28, 496, 12, 0, -6]
for value in test_values:
		print(value, is_perfect_number(value))

Observed output:

1 False
2 False
6 True
10 False
28 True
496 True
12 False
0 True
-6 False

The function correctly identifies common perfect numbers such as 6, 28, and
496, and correctly rejects non-perfect positive numbers such as 1, 2, 10, and
12.

4. MISSING CONDITIONS

- The function does not validate the input type. Strings, floating-point
	values, and other non-integer values can cause TypeError or produce
	unintended behavior.
- Negative numbers and zero are not explicitly rejected, even though a
	perfect number must be a positive integer. In particular, this code
	incorrectly returns True for zero because its empty divisor sum is zero.
	These values should return False or be rejected with a clear exception
	according to the chosen function contract.
- Boolean values are subclasses of int in Python, so True would be treated as
	the number 1 unless the implementation explicitly rejects Boolean input.
- The function has no documentation or type hints to state its expected input
	and output.

5. INEFFICIENCIES IN THE LOGIC

- The loop checks every integer from 1 through number - 1. This gives O(n)
	time complexity, which is unnecessarily slow for large inputs.
- Divisors occur in pairs. The function can check only up to the square root
	of the number, add both divisors when a factor is found, and avoid counting
	the number itself.
- For an even number larger than 2, the function could reject it early when
	appropriate, although checking divisors up to its square root is the more
	generally useful optimization.
- The function could return early when the running divisor sum becomes larger
	than the number.

6. IMPROVED LOGIC

An improved implementation should first require a positive integer, reject
Boolean values, return False for 1, and inspect divisor pairs only through the
square root. This reduces the worst-case time complexity to O(sqrt(n)) and
uses O(1) extra space while preserving the same results for valid inputs.